# MessageApp
MessageApp is an mobile application (Android only) for secure messaging that implement different cryptographic methods to obtain a secure communication between users.

This project was developed through an Android mobile application that implements the functionalities of a secure communication method. Those functionalities are based on symmetric cryptography, Android software development (SDK) and Java programming techniques.

At first sight, application allow the user to choose between the types of communication, meaning that the user can send an encrypted message or an unencrypted message where both types of communication are using Short Message Service (SMS) technology. The part of encrypted message is where the functionalities of symmetric cryptography are used for. For encrypted communication it is necessary to validate between users, this being implemented through the use of the QR Code scanning functionality. This functionality is allowed after the user generates in real time, his own private session key and this key is converted into a QR Code. This key is generated by a random number generator whose entropy underlies the use of the device's accelerometer, and is then used to encrypt messages. Following the validation process, the private session key of each scanned user is stored and this is used in the message decryption process. Through the validation process, the application benefits from the End-to-end encryption type. Both the encryption process and the decryption process are part of the XXTEA cryptosystem algorithm.

With all these functionalities, I have developed an application interface that is as user-friendly as possible and as intuitive as possible for any users.
